In this video, we're going to cover deleting grades.
Currently the app does not delete grades.
And we're going to apply TDD
to implement this new functionality.
What we'll do is
we'll focus on the backend coding for now,
and then we'll come back to the UI front end
a little bit later.
All right. So let's go ahead and swing over to our IDE.
And I like to add my work here
in this student grade service test.
Let me zoom in for a bit.
And I'll add this new test method.
I'll name the method delete grade service,
and I'll simply go through an attempt
to delete a given grade.
I have assert equals one,
student grade service delete.
I pass in the grade id and the grade type.
If this is successful,
it should return the student id after the delete.
So the expected of one,
that's the actual student id.
When we say student service dot delete grade one, math,
that's the actual grade id.
So two different ids here.
All righty.
So it says that it can't resolve
the method delete grade in student and grade service.
That means we need to add this method.
So moving to our service,
student and grade service.
And let's move down here.
And let's create this new method.
The method signature, delete grade,
and id, string grade type.
So the id coming in is the actual grade id.
And we'll return the student id
once we perform a delete.
At the moment right now,
just simply say student id equals zero,
and then return student id.
Again, failing test, right?
Nothing's going to really work,
but at least we have things stubbed out for now.
Let's go ahead and run this test.
And of course we expect this to fail.
We expected a one, but the actual zero.
Okay. We totally understand that
because we simply just have this stubbed out for now.
Let's go ahead and move in here
and actually write the code and delete grade.
So if the grade type equals math,
then we'll actually retrieve the grade using the DAO.
I'll use this math grade DAO dot find by id.
Use that grade id.
If that grade is not present,
meaning that it was not found,
then we return student id,
basically the student id of zero
because we didn't find it.
Next, we'll say student id equals grade dot get student id.
So we actually get the actual student id
for that given grade.
Next, we actually delete the grade by saying
math grade DAO dot delete by id.
Pass in that id.
And then finally we return student id.
So that's the whole idea.
We've deleted the grade.
We simply returned the student id for that given grade.
Now let's swing back over here,
and lets run our test.
And excellent.
This test passes.
So I'm happy.
This part works out just fine for us.
Now this covers math grades.
In the next video, we'll go through
an (indistinct) coding here for history and science grades.
So I'll see you in the next video.